# Shitty First Draft
ok youre not allowed to stop typing let's go first you gotta start with an
introduction or something i guess you can start with something general about
the evolution of technology and how important it is to make sure it's getting
used correctly or whatever or maybe thats too ambiguous so start off with
emotionally setting up how screwed up the robert julian-borchak williams
arrest was and then just hop right in lol ok after introduction you gotta just
slam in the thesis statement dont make the introduction to long all the meaty
bits you want to get at is in the argumentation because you have some hella
great sources thank god for the internet amiright ok so the thesis statement's
gotta be something like "the concept of white privilege is a productive way to
view robert julian-borchak william's incident with the detroit police
department and, more generally, the problem of racial bias in machine learning
systems because both are rooted in the ignorance for systemic causes of
racism. before implementing artifical intelligence technology, white privilege
must be addressed" im not really that happy with some of the wording here like
"incident" feels like its downplaying the indicent (yeah i mean it was an
incident but just call it an arrest or something thats more clear) but more
importantly the final sentence "before implementing..." feels kinda out of
nowhere its disconnected from the first bit by such a jump, maybe fill in
something in between those two sentences i dunno but as of the moment it aint
good okay for the first section let's maybe delve into the case study wait i
probably should introduce the case study in the introduction, let's keep that
in mind the introduction has 1) general, more abstract intro into general
topic, 2) intro to case study, 3) thesis statement about case study okay now
let's get to the first section, first section should go deeper into the case
study and specifically justify the connection between the incident and the
concept of bias in machine learning, then for the second body section let's
claim that bias in machine learning is not like an isolated thing, there's a
lot of research into how biased data or biased engineering causes models to be
biased you have sources on this you can really really really in depth here i'd
bet and once you're done with that le'ts make the connection to white
privilege and how the engineering of biased models is essentially a form white
privilege or at least reinforces the status quo of white privilege, the
problems' root is the same kind of ignorance for the struggles of marginalized
groups essentially okay awesome we kind of got at the core of our thing here
alright then let's finally end of with the idea of us having to fix white
privilege and systemic marginalization before we can safely implement machine
learning or artificial intelligence solutions and make it grand okays let'so gooo